Water can boil and freeze at the same time
Lasers can get trapped in a waterfall
We've got spacecraft hurtling towards the edge of our Solar System really, really fast
An egg looks like a crazy jellyfish underwater
You can prove Pythagoras' theorem with fluid
This is what happens when a black hole swallows a star
You CAN see without your glasses
This is how a face forms in the womb

Popping your knuckles isn't necessarily bad for you
A single solar flare can release the equivalent energy of millions of 100-megaton atomic bombs
Cats always land on their feet, thanks to physics
You'd be better off surviving a grenade on land rather than underwater
If you spin a ball as you drop it, it flies
The speed of light is generally rounded down to 186,000 miles per second.
It takes 8 minutes 17 seconds for light to travel from the Sun’s surface to the Earth.
10 percent of all human beings ever born are alive at this very moment.
The Earth spins at 1,000 mph but it travels through space at an incredible 67,000 mph.
Every year over one million earthquakes shake the Earth.
When Krakatoa erupted in 1883, its force was so great it could be heard 4,800 kilometres away in Australia.
The largest ever hailstone weighed over 1kg and fell in Bangladesh in 1986.
Every second around 100 lightning bolts strike the Earth.
Every year lightning kills 1000 people.
In October 1999 an Iceberg the size of London broke free from the Antarctic ice shelf.
If you could drive your car straight up you would arrive in space in just over an hour.
Human tapeworms can grow up to 22.9m.
The Earth is 4.56 billion years old…the same age as the Moon and the Sun.
The dinosaurs became extinct before the Rockies or the Alps were formed.
Female black widow spiders eat their males after mating.
When a flea jumps, the rate of acceleration is 20 times that of the space shuttle during launch.
If our Sun were just inch in diameter, the nearest star would be 445 miles away.
The Australian billygoat plum contains 100 times more vitamin C than an orange.
Astronauts cannot belch – there is no gravity to separate liquid from gas in their stomachs.
The air at the summit of Mount Everest, 29,029 feet is only a third as thick as the air at sea level.
One million, million, million, million, millionth of a second after the Big Bang the Universe was the size of a …pea.
DNA was first discovered in 1869 by Swiss Friedrich Mieschler.
The molecular structure of DNA was first determined by Watson and Crick in 1953.
The first synthetic human chromosome was constructed by US scientists in 1997.
The thermometer was invented in 1607 by Galileo.
Englishman Roger Bacon invented the magnifying glass in 1250.
Alfred Nobel invented dynamite in 1866.
Wilhelm Rontgen won the first Nobel Prize for physics for discovering X-rays in 1895.
The tallest tree ever was an Australian eucalyptus – In 1872 it was measured at 435 feet tall.
Christian Barnard performed the first heart transplant in 1967 – the patient lived for 18 days.
The wingspan of a Boeing 747 is longer than the Wright brother’s first flight.
An electric eel can produce a shock of up to 650 volts.
‘Wireless’ communications took a giant leap forward in 1962 with the launch of Telstar, the first satellite capable of relaying telephone and satellite TV signals.
The earliest wine makers lived in Egypt around 2300 BC.
The Ebola virus kills 4 out of every 5 humans it infects.
In 5 billion years the Sun will run out of fuel and turn into a Red Giant.
Giraffes often sleep for only 20 minutes in any 24 hours. They may sleep up to 2 hours (in spurts – not all at once), but this is rare. They never lie down.
A pig’s orgasm lasts for 30 minutes.
Without its lining of mucus your stomach would digest itself.
Humans have 46 chromosomes, peas have 14 and crayfish have 200.
There are 60,000 miles of blood vessels in the human body.
An individual blood cell takes about 60 seconds to make a complete circuit of the body.
Utopia ia a large, smooth lying area of Mars.
On the day that Alexander Graham Bell was buried the entire US telephone system was shut down for 1 minute in tribute.
The low frequency call of the humpback whale is the loudest noise made by a living creature.
The call of the humpback whale is louder than Concorde and can be heard from 500 miles away.
A quarter of the world’s plants are threatened with extinction by the year 2010.
Each person sheds 40lbs of skin in his or her lifetime.
At 15 inches the eyes of giant squids are the largest on the planet.
The largest galexies contain a million, million stars.
The Universe contains over 100 billion galaxies.
Wounds infested with maggots heal quickly and without spread of gangrene or other infection.
More germs are transferred shaking hands than kissing.
The longest glacier in Antarctica, the Almbert glacier, is 250 miles long and 40 miles wide.
The fastest speed a falling raindrop can hit you is 18mph.
A healthy person has 6,000 million, million, million haemoglobin molecules.
A salmon-rich, low cholesterol diet means that Inuits rarely suffer from heart disease.
Inbreeding causes 3 out of every 10 Dalmation dogs to suffer from hearing disability.
The world’s smallest winged insect, the Tanzanian parasitic wasp, is smaller than the eye of a housefly.
If the Sun were the size of a beach ball then Jupiter would be the size of a golf ball and the Earth would be as small as a pea.
It would take over an hour for a heavy object to sink 6.7 miles down to the deepest part of the ocean.
There are more living organisms on the skin of each human than there are humans on the surface of the earth.
The grey whale migrates 12,500 miles from the Artic to Mexico and back every year.
Each rubber molecule is made of 65,000 individual atoms.
Around a million, billion neutrinos from the Sun will pass through your body while you read this sentence.
and now they are already past the Moon.
Quasars emit more energy than 100 giant galaxies.
Quasars are the most distant objects in the Universe.
The saturn V rocket which carried man to the Moon develops power equivalent to fifty 747 jumbo jets.
Koalas sleep an average of 22 hours a day, two hours more than the sloth.
Light would take .13 seconds to travel around the Earth.
Males produce one thousand sperm cells each second – 86 million each day.
Neutron stars are so dense that a teaspoonful would weigh more than all the people on Earth.
One in every 2000 babies is born with a tooth.
Every hour the Universe expands by a billion miles in all directions.
Somewhere in the flicker of a badly tuned TV set is the background radiation from the Big Bang.
Even travelling at the speed of light it would take 2 million years to reach the nearest large galaxy, Andromeda.
The temperature in Antarctica plummets as low as -35 degrees celsius.
At over 2000 kilometres long The Great Barrier Reef is the largest living structure on Earth.
A thimbleful of a neutron star would weigh over 100 million tons.
The risk of being struck by a falling meteorite for a human is one occurence every 9,300 years.
The driest inhabited place in the world is Aswan, Egypt where the annual average rainfall is .02 inches.
The deepest part of any ocean in the world is the Mariana trench in the Pacific with a depth of 35,797 feet.
The largest meteorite craters in the world are in Sudbury, Ontario, canada and in Vredefort, South Africa.
The largest desert in the world, the Sahara, is 3,500,000 square miles.
The largest dinosaur ever discovered was Seismosaurus who was over 100 feet long and weighed up to 80 tonnes.
The African Elephant gestates for 22 months.
The short-nosed Bandicoot has a gestation period of only 12 days.
The mortality rate if bitten by a Black Mamba snake is over 95%.
In the 14th century the Black Death killed 75,000,000 people. It was carried by fleas on the black rat.
A dog’s sense of smell is 1,000 times more sensitive than a humans.
A typical hurricane produces the nergy equivalent to 8,000 one megaton bombs.
90% of those who die from hurricanes die from drowning.
To escape the Earth’s gravity a rocket need to travel at 7 miles a second.
If every star in the Milky Way was a grain of salt they would fill an Olympic sized swimming pool.
Microbial life can survive on the cooling rods of a nuclear reactor.
Micro-organisms have been brought back to life after being frozen in perma-frost for three million years.
Our oldest radio broadcasts of the 1930s have already travelled past 100,000 stars.
At least half of Earth's Oxygen comes from the ocean, not trees. 
Tiny aquatic plants called phytoplankton live near the surface of the water, drift with the currents, and generally do what plants do - make oxygen as a byproduct of taking in sunlight and carbon dioxide.
You fart after you die. Any gasses being held inside by clenched muscles get released. Gases also build up from bacteria and decomposition, so there's more where that came from.
Microbiologists at the University of Idaho say that there are about ten times the number of bacterial cells in your body as there are human cells. However, this is a good thing as we need most of those bacteria; the overwhelming majority of them are beneficial.
10% of Europeans are naturally immune to the HIV virus due to a genetic mutation. Scientists believe this mutation was a result of all the plagues in the middle ages. So your ancestors survived the time of The Black Death and The Pox, and today you're immune to HIV. Genetics are weird, man.
Conifer oils (think pine trees) actually contain an anti-inflammatory compound called Alpha-Pinene. This has been used to treat bronchial issues such as asthma and is being studied for other inflammatory diseases.
Playing a *moderate* amount of video games is actually good for you. It boosts your memory and multitasking skills, can help those with dyslexia, increases coordination, and reduces stress.
There's a migraine medication (Sumatriptan) that can actually cause some people's blood to turn dark green when taken in large does. 
It causes something called sulfhaemoglobinaemia which basically means there's sulphur in your hemoglobin. That's not exactly a good thing. Don't bleed green kids.
People actually avoid information that threatens their happiness and worldview. 
People will surround themselves with things they agree with, basically creating their own reality. 
Luna moths have no mouths. Once they emerge from their cocoon, they have a 7 day lifespan during which they mate and then starve to death. (And yes, it would be a great band name, but there's already a band named The Luna Moth.)
Coffee is the most widely used recreational drugs we know of. It's also one of the most addictive. It's a stimulant, like cocaine. When someone says they need a cup of coffee or that they are grumpy before coffee in the morning, they aren't kidding. They may be having withdraw symptoms.
Tears you cry when you're upset actually contain a hormone that's a natural painkiller. Your body releases this hormone (called leucine enkephalin) when you're under stress. So if you ever feel like you need to just sit and have a good cry, your body is just trying to comfort itself.
Hot and cold water sound different when being poured. It's actually noticeable to the human ear if you pay attention. 
Water changes viscosity (aka its thickness or stickiness) depending on temperature. Long story short, the colder the water, the higher the pitch, whereas pouring something hot like, oh, say..coffee...is going to have a lower, more comforting pitch.
There are animals and plants considered to be "Biologically Immortal." While they can and do die, this is due to injury or disease. They don't really age (at least not in the sense of breaking down) and won't die from old age. Jellyfish and Lobsters are two examples of this.
The smell that grass gives off when it's cut is actually a distress signal. You're basically smelling the grass screaming in pain. Don't tell social media, or we'll have a hashtag about it....
Velociraptors were actually only about the size of a Turkey, not the 6'-7' beasts we've come to know and love from That Dinosaur Park Franchise. Those 'Raptors were actually based on a dinosaur called Utahraptor. So in that scene, in the first movie, with the kid talking about a giant turkey? Actual VELOCIraptors weren't even giant turkeys.
Honey, when sealed, does not rot or go bad. It's literally edible thousands of years later. Egyptian tombs have been found with jars of still edible honey inside.
Sunflowers are sometimes used to clean up nuclear waste and radioactive soil. 
Sunflowers actually pick up radioactive isotopes, so as they grow, they literally suck the radiation up out of the soil. The flowers and stems are then radioactive, so no word on if they glow at night.
Several hundred earthquakes actually occur worldwide on a daily basis; they're just of such a low magnitude (2 or lower) that we often don't notice. Or, you know, in the middle of the ocean.
Despite being taught in school we have five senses - sight, touch, smell, taste, and sound - humans really have over 20. 
Proprioception is the ability to tell where your body parts are in relation to other body parts, even when you can't see them. 
Equilibrioception is basically your sense of balance, which allows you to stay upright when doing important things like walking.
The weight of the average fluffy, cumulus cloud is a little over a million pounds. Clouds are made up of tiny drops of water dispersed over a large area (much larger than it seems from the ground) and water is very heavy. For context, that's roughly the weight of 100 elephants.
Up until the 1960's, doctors determined if a woman was pregnant by injecting her urine into a female frog. If the frog laid eggs within a day (due to the hormones in the pregnant woman's urine), it was considered positive. Before frogs, rabbits or mice were used, but these had to be killed and dissected in order to tell if the hormones had any effect on the animal.
Octopus have nine brains, three hearts, and blue blood. Two hearts for the gills, one for everything else, and one central brain with a smaller one at the base of each arm.
African Elephants are pregnant for 22 months. It's the longest gestation of any mammal. Some sharks, which are not mammals, can carry their young for over three years.
With the ability to pull 100,000 times their own body weight, the strongest creatures on Earth are actually a type of bacteria. Uh, Gonorrhea, to be exact.
There is a species of beetle - the Bombardier Beetle - that shoots a boiling hot chemical mixture at it's enemies by mixing hydroquinone and hydrogen peroxide together, which are stored separately in the beetle's abdomen until needed. It literally farts fire at you. They live on every continent except Antarctica.
A human organ that no-one knew about has been hiding in plain sight all this time. Called mesentery, it connects the intestine to the abdomen and is believed to perform important functions for the body ranging from helping the heart to aiding the immune system.
Did you know that there are 206 bones in the adult human body and there are 300 in children (as they grow some of the bones fuse together).
Flea's can jump 130 times higher than their own height. In human terms this is equal to a 6ft. person jumping 780 ft. into the air.
The most dangerous animal in the world is the common housefly. Because of their habits of visiting animal waste, they transmit more diseases than any other animal.
Snakes are true carnivorous because they eat nothing but other animals. They do not eat any type of plant material.
The world's largest amphibian is the giant salamander. It can grow up to 5 ft. in length.
100 years ago: The first virus was found in both plants and animals.
90 years ago: The Grand Canyon became a national monument & Cellophane is invented.
80 years ago: The food mixer and the domestic refrigerator were invented.
70 years ago: The teletype and PVC (polyvinyl-chloride) were invented.
60 years ago: Otto Hahn discovered nuclear fission by splitting uranium, Teflon was invented.
50 years ago: Velcro was invented.
40 years ago: An all-female population of lizards was discovered in Armenia.
30 years ago: The computer mouse was invented.
20 years ago: First test-tube baby born in England, Pluto’s moon, Charon, discovered.
10 years ago: First patent for a genetically-engineered mouse was issued to Harvard Medical School.
5 years ago: The first successful cloning of human embryo
The smallest bone in the human body is the stapes or stirrup bone located in the middle ear. It is approximately .11 inches (.28 cm) long.
The longest cells in the human body are the motor neurons. They can be up to 4.5 feet (1.37 meters) long and run from the lower spinal cord to the big toe.
There are no poisonous snakes in Maine.
The blue whale can produce sounds up to 188 decibels. This is the loudest sound produced by a living animal and has been detected as far away as 530 miles.
The largest man-made lake in the U.S. is Lake Mead, created by Hoover Dam.
The poison arrow frogs of South and Central America are the most poisonous animals in the world.
A new born blue whale measures 20-26 feet (6.0 - 7.9 meters) long and weighs up to 6,614 pounds (3003 kg).
The first coast-to-coast telephone line was established in 1914.
The Virginia opossum has a gestation period of only 12-13 days.
The Stegosaurus dinosaur measured up to 30 feet (9.1 meters) long but had a brain the size of a walnut.
The largest meteorite crater in the world is in Winslow, Arizona. It is 4,150 feet across and 150 feet deep.
The human eye blinks an average of 4,200,000 times a year.
Skylab, the first American space station, fell to the earth in thousands of pieces in 1979. Thankfully most over the ocean.
It takes approximately 12 hours for food to entirely digest.
Human jaw muscles can generate a force of 200 pounds (90.8 kilograms) on the molars.
The Skylab astronauts grew 1.5 - 2.25 inches (3.8 - 5.7 centimeters) due to spinal lengthening and straightening as a result of zero gravity.
An inch (2.5 centimeters) of rain water is equivalent to 15 inches (38.1 centimeters) of dry, powdery snow.
Tremendous erosion at the base of Niagara Falls (USA) undermines the shale cliffs and as a result the falls have receded approximately 7 miles over the last 10,000 years.
40 to 50 percent of body heat can be lost through the head (no hat) as a result of its extensive circulatory network.
A large swarm of desert locusts (Schistocerca gregaria) can consume 20,000 tons (18,160,000 kilograms) of vegetation a day.
The largest telescope in the world is currently being constructed in northern Chile. The telescope will utilize four - 26 ft. 8 in. (8.13 meters) mirrors which will gather as much light as a single 52 ft. 6 in. (16 meters) mirror.
The Hubble Space Telescope weighs 12 tons (10,896 kilograms), is 43 feet (13.1 meters) long, and cost $2.1 billion to originally build.
The longest living cells in the body are brain cells which can live an entire lifetime.
The largest flying animal was the pterosaur which lived 70 million years ago. This reptile had a wing span of 36-39 feet (11-11.9 meters) and weighed 190-250 pounds (86-113.5 kilograms).
The Atlantic Giant Squid's eye can be as large as 15.75 inches (40 centimeters) wide.
Armadillos, opossums, and sloth's spend about 80% of their lives sleeping.
The starfish species, Porcellanaster ivanovi, has been found to live in water as deep as 24,881 feet (7,584 meters).
The tentacles of the giant Arctic jellyfish can reach 120 feet (36.6 meters) in length.
The greatest tide change on earth occurs in the Bay of Fundy. The difference between low tide and high tide can be as great as 54 ft. 6 in. (16.6 meters).
The highest temperature produced in a laboratory was 920,000,000 F (511,000,000 C) at the Tokamak Fusion Test Reactor in Princeton, NJ, USA.
The most powerful laser in the world, the Nova laser at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, CA, USA, generates a pulse of energy equal to 100,000,000,000,000 watts of power for .000000001 second to a target the size of a grain of sand.
The fastest computer in the world is the CRAY Y-MP C90 supercomputer. It has two gigabytes of central memory and 16 parallel central processor units.
The heaviest human brain ever recorded weighed 5 lb. 1.1 oz. (2.3 kg.).
The deepest part of the ocean is 35,813 feet (10,916 meters) deep and occurs in the Mariana Trench in the Pacific Ocean. At that depth the pressure is 18,000 pounds (9172 kilograms) per square inch.
The largest cave in the world (the Sarawak Chamber in Malaysia) is 2,300 feet (701 meters) long, 980 feet (299 meters) wide, and more than 230 feet (70 meters) high.
The hottest planet in the solar system is Venus, with an estimated surface temperature of 864 F (462 C).
The ears of a cricket are located on the front legs, just below the knee.
The first electronic digital computer (called ENIAC - the Electronic Numerical Integrator and Calculator) was developed in 1946 and contained over 18,000 vacuum tubes.
The leg muscles of a locust are about 1000 times more powerful than an equal weight of human muscle.
The cosmos contains approximately 50,000,000,000 galaxies.
There are between 100,000,000,000 and 1,000,000,000,000 stars in a normal galaxy.
Sound travels about 4 times faster in water than in air.
Scientists have discovered that copper pollution of the atmosphere occurred about 2500 years ago. This was discovered by analyzing ice cores from Greenland. The pollution was attributed to the Romans who used copper for military purposes and to produce coins.
Hydrofluoric acid will dissolve glass.
In a full grown rye plant, the total length of roots may reach 380 miles (613 km).
In a full grown rye plant, the total length of fine root hairs may reach 6600 miles (10,645 km).
A large sunspot can last for about a week.
If you could throw a snowball fast enough, it would totally vaporize when it hit a brick wall.
Boron nitride (BN) is the second hardest substance known to man.
The female Tarantula Hawk wasp paralyzes a large spider with her sting. She then lays her eggs on the motionless body so that her developing young have a fresh supply of spider meat to feed on.
The seeds of an Indian Lotus tree remain viable for 300 to 400 years.
The only letter not appearing on the Periodic Table is the letter “J”.
Velcro was invented by a Swiss guy who was inspired by the way burrs attached to clothing.
Hershey's Kisses are called that because the machine that makes them looks like it's kissing the conveyor belt.
October 10 is National Metric Day.
If you stretch a standard Slinky out flat it measures 87 feet long.
The microwave was invented after a researcher walked by a radar tube and a chocolate bar melted in his pocket.
Super Glue was invented by accident. The researcher was trying to make optical coating materials, and would test their properties by putting them between two prisms and shining light through them. When he tried the cyano-acrylate, he couldn't get the prisms apart.
No matter its size or thickness, no piece of paper can be folded in half more than 7 times.
A car traveling at 80 km/h uses half its fuel to overcome wind resistance.
Knowledge is growing so fast that ninety per cent of what we will know in fifty years time, will be discovered in those fifty years.
According to an old English system of time units, a moment is one and a half minutes.
The typewriter was invented in 1829, and the automatic dishwasher in 1889.
The wristwatch was invented in 1904 by Louis Cartier.
When glass breaks, the cracks move at speeds of up to 3,000 miles per hour.
By raising your legs slowly and laying on your back, you can't sink in quicksand.
Ten minutes of one hurricane contains enough energy to match the nuclear stockpiles of the world.
Most gemstones contain several elements. The exception? The diamond. It's all carbon.
Diamonds are the hardest substance known to man.
Which of the 50 states has never had an earthquake? North Dakota.
When hydrogen burns in the air, water is formed.
Sterling silver contains 7.5% copper.
Cars were first made with ignition keys in 1949.
J.B Dunlop was first to put air into tires.
Alexander Graham Bell, who invented the telephone, also set a world water-speed record of over seventy miles an hour at the age of seventy two.
It is energy-efficient to turn off a fluorescent light only if it will not be used again within an hour or more. This is because of the high voltage needed to turn it on, and the shortened life this high voltage causes.
The Earth's equatorial circumference (40,075 km) is greater than its polar circumference (40,008 km).
Lake Baikal is the deepest lake in the world.
Due to gravitational effects, you weigh slightly less when the moon is directly overhead.
The Earth's average velocity orbiting the sun is 107,220 km per hour.
There is a high and low tide because of our moon and the Sun.
The United States consumes 25% of all the world’s energy.
Flying from London to New York by Concord, due to the time zones crossed, you can arrive 2 hours before you leave.
There is enough fuel in a full tank of a Jumbo Jet to drive an average car four times around the world.
The surface speed record on the moon is 10.56 miles per hour. It was set with the lunar rover.
If you could drive to the sun -- at 55 miles per hour -- it would take about 193 years
The moon is one million times drier than the Gobi Desert.
Just twenty seconds worth of fuel remained when Apollo 11's lunar module landed on the moon.
A Boeing 707 uses four thousand gallons of fuel in its take-off climb.
The planet Saturn has a density lower than water. So, if placed in water it would float.
Since 1959, more than 6,000 pieces of 'space junk' (abandoned rocket and satellite parts) have fallen out of orbit - many of these have hit the earth's surface.
It takes 70% less energy to produce a ton of paper from recycled paper than from trees.
Every year in the US, 625 people are struck by lightning.
Hawaii is moving toward Japan 4 inches every year.
The rocket engine has to supply its own oxygen so it can burn its fuel in outer space.
The North Atlantic gets 1 inch wider every year.
Oxygen is the most abundant element in the Earth’s crust, waters, and atmosphere (about 49.5%)
A stroke of lightning discharges from 10 to 100 million volts & 30,000 amperes of electricity.
A bolt of lightning is about 54,000°F (30,000°C); six times hotter than the Sun.
Hydrogen is the most abundant element in the Universe (75%).
The average distance between the Earth & the Moon is 238,857 miles (384,392 km). 
The moon is 27% the size of the Earth.
The Earth weighs 6.6 sextillion tons, or 5.97 x 1024 kg.
The center of the Sun is about 27 million degrees Fahrenheit (15 million °C).
Sunlight takes about 8 minutes & 20 seconds to reach the Earth at 186,282 miles/sec (299,792 Km/sec).
The highest temperature on Earth was 136°F (58°C) in Libya in 1922.
The lowest temperature on Earth was -128.6°F (-89.6°C) in Antarctica in 1983.
Sunlight can penetrate clean ocean water to a depth of 240 feet.
The average ocean floor is 12,000 feet.
The temperature can be determined by counting the number of cricket chirps in fourteen seconds and adding 40.
House flies have a lifespan of two weeks.
Chimps are the only animals that can recognize themselves in a mirror.
Starfish don't have brains.
The average person falls asleep in seven minutes.
Shrimp's hearts are in their heads.
Every time you lick a stamp, you're consuming 1/10 of a calorie.
The longest recorded flight of a chicken is thirteen seconds
Emus and kangaroos cannot walk backwards.
Cats have over one hundred vocal sounds, while dogs only have about ten. 
Porcupines float in water.
An ostrich's eye is bigger that its brain. 
An iguana can stay under water for twenty-eight minutes.
The common goldfish is the only animal that can see both infra-red and ultra-violet light.
It's impossible to sneeze with your eyes open.
The pupil of an octopus' eye is rectangular.
Our eyes are always the same size from birth, but our nose and ears never stop growing.
The leg bones of a bat are so thin that no bat can walk.
Ants cannot chew their food, they move their jaws sideways, like scissors, to extract the juices from the food.
Hummingbirds are the only animals able to fly backwards.
A cat has 32 muscles in each ear.
Tigers have striped skin, not just striped fur.
A cat's jaws cannot move sideways.
Armadillos get an average of 18.5 hours of sleep per day.
Armadillos can walk underwater.
There are more beetles than any other kind of creature in the world.
Certain frogs that can survive the experience of being frozen. 
Only humans sleep on their backs.
The human brain is 80% water.
Everyone's tongue print is different.
As an adult, you have more than 20 square feet of skin on your body--about the same square footage as a blanket for a queen-sized bed.
In your lifetime, you'll shed over 40 pounds of skin.
15 million blood cells are produced and destroyed in the human body every second.
Every minute, 30-40,000 dead skin cells fall from your body.
The brain uses more than 25% of the oxygen used by the human body.
If your mouth was completely dry, you would not be able to distinguish the taste of anything.
There are more living organisms on the skin of a single human being than there are human beings on the surface of the earth.
Muscles are made up of bundles from about 5 in the eyelid to about 200 in the buttock muscle.
Muscles in the human body (640 in total) make up about half of the body weight.
The human body has enough fat to produce 7 bars of soap.
The human head is a quarter of our total length at birth, but only an eighth of our total length by the time we reach adulthood.
Most people blink about 17,000 times a day.
Moths have no stomach.
Hummingbirds can't walk.
Sea otters have 2 coats of fur.
A starfish can turn its stomach inside out.
A zebra is white with black stripes.
The animal with the largest brain in relation to its body is the ant.
The largest eggs in the world are laid by a shark.
A crocodile’s tongue is attached to the roof of its mouth.
Crocodiles swallow stones to help them dive deeper.
Giraffes are unable to cough.
Sharks are immune to cancer.
Despite the hump, a camel’s spine is straight.
Cheetah's can accelerate from 0 to 70 km/h in 3 seconds.
A giraffe's neck contains the same number of vertebrae as a human.
The heart of giraffe is two feet long, and can weigh as much as twenty four pounds.
On average, Elephants sleep for about 2 hours per day.
Lobsters have blue blood.
Shark's teeth are literally as hard as steel.
A mosquito has 47 teeth.
Oxygen, carbon, hydrogen and nitrogen make up 90% of the human body.
Seventy percent of the dust in your home consists of shed human skin
Fish are the only vertebrates that outnumber birds.
A cockroach can live for several weeks without its head.
The average human produces a quart of saliva a day -- about 10,000 gallons in a lifetime
Elephants have been known to remain standing after they die.
The embryos of tiger sharks fight each other while in their mother's womb, the survivor being the baby shark that is born.
Ants do not sleep.
Nearly a third of all bottled drinking water purchased in the US is contaminated with bacteria.
Rats multiply so quickly that in 18 months, two rats could have over 1 million descendents.
An Astronaut can be up to 2 inches taller returning from space. The cartilage disks in the spine expand in the absence of gravity.
The oldest known fossil is of a single-celled organism, blue-green algae, found in 3.2 billion year-old stones in South Africa.
The oldest multicellular fossils date from ~700 million years ago.
The earliest cockroach fossils are about 280 million years old.
Healthy nails grow about 2 cm each year. Fingernails grow four times as fast as toenails.
20/20 vision means the eye can see normally at 20 feet. 20/15 is better; the eye can see at 20 feet what another eye sees at 15 feet.
The average person has 100,000 hairs on his/her head. Each hair grows about 5 inches (12.7 cm) every year.
There are 60,000 miles (97,000 km) in blood vessels in every human.
Female sharks have thicker skins than males
The ocean is 8 Empire State Buildings deep
Your hand has a built in snuff box
We're made up of 206 bones
These roaches hiss to woo mates
You'd weigh way less on the moon
Bathroom etiquette is ancient
Camels don't actually store water in their humps
Salamanders can extend their tongues a long way
El Azizia in Libya is HOT
You're full of bacteria
The platypus is not so cute and cuddly
The Catholic Church once put a dead pope on trial
There's a disorder that makes it hard to recognize faces
Mantis shrimp are dangerous fellas
Scallops have good vision
Pregnancy comes with a built-in life support system
This sauropod has the longest neck for its body size
This metal is liquid at standard room temperature
Bras were made for comfort?
There is enough DNA in an average person’s body to stretch from the sun to Pluto and back — 17 times
The average human body carries ten times more bacterial cells than human cells
It can take a photon 40,000 years to travel from the core of the sun to its surface, but only 8 minutes to travel the rest of the way to Earth
At over 2000 kilometers long, The Great Barrier Reef is the largest living structure on Earth
There are 8 times as many atoms in a teaspoonful of water as there are teaspoonfuls of water in the Atlantic ocean
The average person walks the equivalent of five times around the world in a lifetime
When Helium is cooled to almost absolute zero (-460°F or -273°C), the lowest temperature possible, it becomes a liquid with surprising properties: it flows against gravity and will start running up and over the lip of a glass container!
If Betelgeuse would explode transiting from the red supergiant stage to supernova then our sky would light continuously for two months. It can happen anytime, within a couple of thousand years, tomorrow or even now
The known universe is made up of 50,000,000,000 galaxies. There are between 100,000,000,000 and 1,000,000,000,000 stars in a normal galaxy. In the Milky Way alone there might be as many 100 billion Earth-like planets. Still think you’re alone?
41 new species are discovered by scientists every single day.
The word "Scientist" first appeared in 1833.
The human brain takes in 11 million bits of information every second but is aware of only 40.
If you drilled a tunnel straight through the Earth and jumped in, it would take you exactly 42 minutes and 12 seconds to get to the other side.
A medium-sized cumulus cloud weighs about the same as 80 elephants.
A single bolt of lightning contains enough energy to cook 100,000 pieces of toast.
Gorillas and potatoes have two more chromosomes than humans do.
Human saliva contains a painkiller called opiorphin that is six times more powerful than morphine.
In an average lifetime, human skin completely replaces itself 900 times.
The air in an average-sized room weighs about 100 pounds.
Lava can flow as fast as a sprinting greyhound.
A red blood cell can make a complete circuit of your body in 20 seconds.
The strongest creatures on Earth are gonorrhea bacteria. They can pull 100,000 times their own body weight.
We're the third rock from the sun
Earth is a squashed sphere
The planet moves around the sun
In total there is said to be around 400 million dogs in the world.
The domestic dog has been one of the most popular working and companion animals throughout human history.
Dogs perform many useful tasks for humans including hunting, farm work and security as well as assisting those with disabilities such as the blind.
Although experts often disagree, there is scientific evidence which shows that the domestication of dogs could have occurred more than 15,000 years ago.
There are hundreds of different breeds of dogs.
Examples of these breeds include: Bulldog, German Shepherd, Collie, Golden Retriever, St Bernard, Greyhound, Bloodhound, Chihuahua, Labrador, Great Dane, Rottweiler, Boxer and Cocker Spaniel.
The most popular breed of dog in the world by registered ownership is the Labrador. With their gentle nature, obedience, intelligence and near limitless energy, Labradors make for excellent family pets and reliable workers. They often assist police and are a common choice as guide dogs.
Dogs have formed such a strong bond as pets, workers and companions to humans that they have earned the nickname "man's best friend".
Humans help train various dog breeds to enter in competitions such as breed shows, agility and obedience contests, racing and sled pulling.
Dog have superior hearing than humans, capable of hearing sounds at four times the distance.
Dogs have a remarkable sense of smell, they are capable of differentiating odors in concentrations nearly 100 million times lower than humans can.
The average life span for a dog is around 10 to 14 years.
Those involved in dog breeding refer to males as ‘dogs’, females as ‘bitches’, dogs younger than a year old as ‘puppies’ and a group of offspring as a ‘litter’.
Domestic dogs are omnivores, they feed on a variety of foods including grains, vegetables and meats.
Cats are one of, if not the most, popular pet in the world.
There are over 500 million domestic cats in the world.
Cats and humans have been associated for nearly 10000 years.
Cats conserve energy by sleeping for an average of 13 to14 hours a day.
Cats have flexible bodies and teeth adapted for hunting small animals such as mice and rats.
A group of cats is called a clowder, a male cat is called a tom, a female cat is called a molly or queen while young cats are called kittens.
Domestic cats usually weigh around 4 kilograms (8 lb 13 oz) to 5 kilograms (11 lb 0 oz).
The heaviest domestic cat on record is 21.297 kilograms (46 lb 15.2 oz).
Cats can be lethal hunters and very sneaky, when they walk their back paws step almost exactly in the same place as the front paws did beforehand, this keeps noise to a minimum and limits visible tracks.
Cats have powerful night vision, allowing them to see at light levels six times lower than what a human needs in order to see.
Cats also have excellent hearing and a powerful sense of smell.
Older cats can at times act aggressively towards kittens.
Domestic cats love to play, this is especially true with kittens who love to chase toys and play fight. Play fighting among kittens may be a way for them to practice and learn skills for hunting and fighting.
On average cats live for around 12 to 15 years.
Cats spend a large amount of time licking their coats to keep them clean.
Feral cats are often seen as pests and threats to native animals.
The tiger is the biggest species of the cat family.
Tigers can reach a length of up to 3.3 metres (11 feet) and weigh as much as 300 kilograms (660 pounds).
Subspecies of the tiger include the Sumatran Tiger, Siberian Tiger, Bengal Tiger, South China Tiger, Malayan Tiger and Indochinese Tiger.
Many subspecies of the tiger are either endangered or already extinct. Humans are the primary cause of this through hunting and the destruction of habitats.
Around half of tiger cubs don’t live beyond two years of age.
Tiger cubs leave their mother when they are around 2 years of age.
A group of tigers is known as an ‘ambush’ or ‘streak’.
Tigers are good swimmers and can swim up to 6 kilometres.
Rare white tigers carry a gene that is only present in around 1 in every 10000 tigers.
Tigers usually hunt alone at night time.
Tigers have been known to reach speeds up to 65 kph (40 mph).
Less than 10% of hunts end successfully for tigers
Tigers can easily jump over 5 metres in length.
Various tiger subspecies are the national animals of Bangladesh, India, North Korea, South Korea and Malaysia.
There are more tigers held privately as pets than there are in the wild.
Tigers that breed with lions give birth to hybrids known as tigons and ligers.
Sharks do not have a single bone in their bodies. Instead they have a skeleton made up of cartilage; the same type of tough, flexible tissue that makes up human ears and noses.
Some sharks remain on the move for their entire lives. This forces water over their gills, delivering oxygen to the blood stream. If the shark stops moving then it will suffocate and die.
Sharks have outstanding hearing. They can hear a fish thrashing in the water from as far as 500 metres away!
If a shark was put into a large swimming pool, it would be able to smell a single drop of blood in the water.
Although most species of shark are less than one metre long, there are some species such as the whale shark, which can be 14 metres long.
A pup (baby shark) is born ready to take care of itself. The mother shark leaves the pup to fend for itself and the pup usually makes a fast get away before the mother tries to eat it!
Not all species of shark give birth to live pups. Some species lay the egg case on the ocean floor and the pup hatches later on its own.
Great whites are the deadliest shark in the ocean. These powerful predators can race through the water at 30 km per hour.
Unlike other species of shark, the great white is warm-blooded. Although the great white does not keep a constant body temperature, it needs to eat a lot of meat in order to be able to regulate its temperature. 
A shark always has a row of smaller teeth developing behind its front teeth. Eventually the smaller teeth move forward, like a conveyor belt, and the front teeth fall out.
Compared to other animals, dolphins are believed to be very intelligent.
Dolphins are carnivores (meat eaters).
The Killer Whale (also known as Orca) is actually a type of dolphin.
Bottlenose dolphins are the most common and well known type of dolphin.
Female dolphins are called cows, males are called bulls and young dolphins are called calves.
Dolphins live in schools or pods of up to 12 individuals.
Dolphins often display a playful attitude which makes them popular in human culture. They can be seen jumping out of the water, riding waves, play fighting and occasionally interacting with humans swimming in the water.
Dolphins use a blowhole on top of their heads to breathe.
Dolphins have excellent eyesight and hearing as well as the ability to use echolocation for finding the exact location of objects.
Dolphins communicate with each other by clicking, whistling and other sounds.
Some dolphin species face the threat of extinction, often directly as a result of human behavior. The Yangtze River Dolphin is an example of a dolphin species which may have recently become extinct.
Some fishing methods, such as the use of nets, kill a large number of dolphins every year.
Lions are the second largest big cat species in the world (behind tigers).
The average male lion weighs around 180 kg (400 lb) while the average female lion weighs around 130 kg (290 lb).
The heaviest lion on record weighed an amazing 375 kg (826 lb).
Lions can reach speeds of up to 81 kph (50 mph) but only in short bursts because of a lack of stamina.
The roar of a lion can be heard from 8 kilometers (5.0 miles) away.

Most lions found in the wild live in southern and eastern parts of Africa.

Lions are very social compared to other cat species, often living in prides that feature females, offspring and a few adult males.

Male lions are easy to recognize thanks to their distinctive manes. Males with darker manes are more likely to attract female lions (lionesses).

Lions are the national animal of Albania, Belgium, Bulgaria, England, Ethiopia, Luxembourg, the Netherlands and Singapore.

Lions in the wild live for around 12 years.

When lions breed with tigers the resulting hybrids are known as ligers and tigons. There are also lion and leopard hybrids known as leopons and lion and jaguar hybrids known as jaglions.

Lionesses are better hunters than males and do most of the hunting for a pride.

In the wild, lions rest for around 20 hours a day.
There are only about 700 mountain gorillas and they live high in the mountains in two protected parks in Africa. Lowland gorillas live in central Africa.
You may have seen baby gorillas being carried on the back of their mothers, but for the first few months after birth the mother holds the baby gorilla to her chest.
An adult male gorilla is called a silverback because of the distinctive silvery fur growing on their back and hips. Each gorilla family has a silverback as leader who scares away other animals by standing on their back legs and beating their chest!
Young male gorillas usually leave their family group when they are about 11 years old and have their own family group by the age of 15 years old. 
Young female gorillas join a new group at about 8 years old.
Gorillas are herbivores. They spend most of their day foraging for food and eating bamboo, leafy plants and sometimes small insects. Adult gorillas can eat up to 30 kilograms of food each day.
An adult gorilla is about 1 meter tall to their shoulders when walking on all fours using their arms and their legs.
A gorilla can live for 40 – 50 years.
Gorillas are considered to be very intelligent animals. They are known for their use of tools and their varied communication. Some gorillas in captivity at a zoo have been taught to use sign language.
Gorillas are endangered animals. Their habitat is destroyed when people use the land for farming and the trees for fuel. Gorillas are also killed by poachers and sometimes get caught in poacher’s snares meant for other animals.
A frog is an amphibian. They lay their eggs in water. The eggs hatch into a tadpole which lives in water until it metamorphoses into an adult frog.
Tadpoles look more like fish than frogs, they have long finned tails and breathe through gills.
An amphibian can live both on land and in water.
Although frogs live on land their habitat must be near swamps, ponds or in a damp place. This is because they will die if their skin dries out.
Instead of drinking water, frogs soak it into their body through their skin.
Frogs breathe through their nostrils while also absorbing about half the air they need through their skin.
Frogs use their sticky, muscular tongue to catch and swallow food. Unlike humans, their tongue is not attached to the back of its mouth. Instead it is attached to the front, enabling the frog to stick its tongue out much further.
The common pond frog is ready to breed when it is only three years old.
Frogs in the wild face many dangers and are lucky to survive several years. In captivity however, frogs can live for much longer.  
Frogs can see forwards, sideways and upwards all at the same time. They never close their eyes, even when they sleep.
Remarkably, frogs actually use their eyes to help them swallow food. When the frog blinks, its eyeballs are pushed downwards creating a bulge in the roof of its mouth. This bulge squeezes the food inside the frog's mouth down the back of its throat.
The cheetah is the fastest land animal in the world. They can reach a top speed of around 113 km per hour.
A cheetah can accelerate from 0 to 113 km in just a few seconds.
Cheetahs are extremely fast however they tire quickly and can only keep up their top speed for a few minutes before they are too tired to continue.
Cheetahs are smaller than other members of the big cat family, weighing only 45 – 60 kilograms.
One way to always recognise a cheetah is by the long, black lines which run from the inside of each eye to the mouth. These are usually called “tear lines” and scientists believe they help protect the cheetah’s eyes from the harsh sun and help them to see long distances.
Cheetahs are the only big cat that cannot roar. They can purr though and usually purr most loudly when they are grooming or sitting near other cheetahs.
While lions and leopards usually do their hunting at night, cheetahs hunt for food during the day.
A cheetah has amazing eyesight during the day and can spot prey from 5 km away.
Cheetahs cannot climb trees and have poor night vision. 
With their light body weight and blunt claws, cheetahs are not well designed to protect themselves or their prey. 
When a larger or more aggressive animal approaches a cheetah in the wild, it will give up its catch to avoid a fight.
Cheetahs only need to drink once every three to four days.
A male giraffe can weigh as much as a pick up truck! That’s about 1400 kilograms.
Although a giraffe’s neck is 1.5 – 1.8 metres, it contains the same number of vertebrae at a human neck.
A giraffe's habitat is usually found in African savannas, grasslands or open woodlands.
The hair that makes up a giraffes tail is about 10 times thicker than the average strand of human hair.
The distinctive spots that cover a giraffe’s fur act as a good camouflage to protect the giraffe from predators. When the giraffe stands in front of trees and bushes the light and dark colouring of its fur blends in with the shadows and sunlight.
It is possible to identify the sex of the giraffe from the horns on its head. Both males and females have horns but the females are smaller and covered with hair at the top. Male giraffes may have up to 3 additional horns.
Giraffes are ruminants. This means that they have more than one stomach. In fact, giraffes have four stomachs, the extra stomachs assisting with digesting food.
Drinking is one of the most dangerous times for a giraffe. While it is getting a drink it cannot keep a look out for predators and is vulnerable to attack.
Male giraffes sometimes fight with their necks over female giraffes. This is called “necking”. The two giraffes stand side by side and one giraffe swings his head and neck, hitting his head against the other giraffe. Sometimes one giraffe is hit to the ground during a combat.
A female giraffe gives birth while standing up. The calf drops approximately 6 feet to the ground, but it is not hurt from the fall.
Giraffes have bluish-purple tongues which are tough and covered in bristly hair to help them with eating the thorny Acacia trees.
There are two types of elephant, the Asian elephant and the African elephant (although sometimes the African Elephant is split into two species, the African Forest Elephant and the African Bush Elephant).
Elephants are the largest land-living mammal in the world.
Both female and male African elephants have tusks but only the male Asian elephants have tusks. They use their tusks for digging and finding food.
Female elephants are called cows. They start to have calves when they are about 12 years old and they are pregnant for 22 months.
An elephant can use its tusks to dig for ground water. An adult elephant needs to drink around 210 litres of water a day.
Elephants have large, thin ears. Their ears are made up of a complex network of blood vessels which help regulate their temperature. Blood is circulated through their ears to cool them down in hot climates.
Elephants have no natural predators. However, lions will sometimes prey on young or weak elephants in the wild. The main risk to elephants is from humans through poaching and changes to their habitat.
The elephant’s trunk is able to sense the size, shape and temperature of an object. An elephant uses its trunk to lift food and suck up water then pour it into its mouth.
An elephant’s trunk can grow to be about 2 metres long and can weigh up to 140 kg. Some scientists believe that an elephant’s trunk is made up of 100,000 muscles, but no bones. 
Female elephants spend their entire lives living in large groups called herds. Male elephant leave their herds at about 13 years old and live fairly solitary lives from this point.
Elephants can swim – they use their trunk to breathe like a snorkel in deep water.
Elephants are herbivores and can spend up to 16 hours days collecting leaves, twigs, bamboo and roots.
Leopards are part of the cat family, Felidae. The scientific name for a leopard is Panthera pardus.
Leopards are well known for their cream and gold spotted fur, but some leopards have black fur with dark spots. These black leopards are often mistaken for panthers.
Adult leopards are solitary animals. Each adult leopard has its own territory where it lives and, although they often share parts of it, they try to avoid one another.
A leopard’s body is built for hunting. They have sleek, powerful bodies and can run at speeds of up to 57 kilometres per hour. They are also excellent swimmers and climbers and can leap and jump long distances.
A leopard’s tail is just about as long as its entire body. This helps it with balance and enables it to make sharp turns quickly.
Leopards are mostly nocturnal, hunting prey at night.
Leopards protect their food from other animals by dragging it high up into the trees. A leopard will often leave their prey up in the tree for days and return only when they are hungry!
Female leopards give birth to a little of two or three cubs at a time. By the time a cub is two years old it will leave the company of its mother and live on their own.
When a female leopard is ready to mate she will give a scent and rub her body on the trees to leave her smell there. 
Male leopards either smell the females scent or hear her call to know that she is ready to mate. 
Many whales are toothless. They use a plate of comb-like fibre called baleen to filter small crustaceans and other creatures from the water.
There are 79 to 84 different species of whale. They came in many different shapes and sizes!
A baby whale is called a calf. Whales form groups to look after calves and feed together. These groups are often made up of all female or all male whales.
Whales that are found in both Northern and Southern hemisphere never meet or breed together. Their migration is timed so that they are never in breeding areas at the same time.
The arched lower lip of a whale can often make it look like it is smiling! However, this isn’t a “real” smile as the blubber in the head of the whale prevents the muscles of the face from reaching the surface.
You can tell the age of a whale by looking at the wax plug in its ear. 
This plug in the ear has a pattern of layers when cut lengthwise that scientists can count to estimate the age of the whale.
Whales love to sing! They use this as a call to mates, a way to communicate and also just for fun! After a period of time they get bored of the same whale song and begin to sing a different tune.
Sometimes whales make navigation mistakes during migrations. Although they may have made the mistake days before, they don’t realise it until they becoming stranded.
Whales support many different types of life. Several creatures, such as barnacles and sea lice, attach themselves to the skin of whales and live there.
Wolves are excellent hunters and have been found to be living in more places in the world than any other mammal except humans.
The wolf is the ancestor of all breeds of domestic dog. It is part of a group of animals called the wild dogs which also includes the dingo and the coyote.
Most wolves weigh about 40 kilograms but the heaviest wolf ever recorded weighed over 80 kilograms!
Adult wolves have large feet. A fully grown wolf would have a paw print nearly 13 centimetres long and 10 centimetres wide.
Wolves live and hunt in groups called a pack. A pack can range from two wolves to as many as 20 wolves depending on such factors as habitat and food supply. Most packs have one breeding pair of wolves, called the alpha pair, who lead the hunt.
Wolf pups are born deaf and blind while weighing around 0.5 kg (1 lb). It takes about 8 months before they are old enough to actively join in wolf pack hunts.
Wolves in the Arctic have to travel much longer distances than wolves in the forest to find food and will sometimes go for several days without eating.
When hunting alone, the wolf catches small animals such as squirrels, hares, chipmunks, raccoons or rabbits. However, a pack of wolves can hunt very large animals like moose, caribou and yaks.
When the pack kills an animal, the alpha pair always eats first. As food supply is often irregular for wolves, they will eat up to 1/5th of their own body weight at a time to make up for days of missed food.
Wolves have two layers of fur, an undercoat and a top coat, which allow them to survive in temperatures as low at minus 40 degrees Celsius! In warmer weather they flatten their fur to keep cool.
A wolf can run at a speed of 65 kilometres per hour during a chase. Wolves have long legs and spend most of their time trotting at a speed of 12-16 kilometres per hour. They can keep up a reasonable pace for hours and have been known to cover distances of 90 kilometres in one night.
The Sun is over 300000 times larger than earth.

Halley’s Comet was last seen in the inner Solar System in 1986, it will be visible again from Earth sometime in 2061 (get your camera ready).
Venus is the hottest planet in our solar system with a surface temperature of over 450 degrees celcius.

Many scientists believe that an asteroid impact caused the extinction of the dinosaurs around 65 million years ago.

The Solar System formed around 4.6 billion years ago.
The Moon appears to have more craters and scars than Earth because it has a lot less natural activity going on, the Earth is constantly reforming its surface through earthquakes, erosion, rain, wind and plants growing on the surface, while the moon has very little weather to alter its appearance.
Saturn isn't the only ringed planet, other gas giants such as Jupiter, Uranus and Neptune also have rings, they are just less obvious.
Footprints and tyre tracks left behind by astronauts on the moon will stay there forever as there is no wind to blow them away.
In 2006, astronomers changed the definition of a planet. This means that Pluto is now referred to as a dwarf planet.
Because of lower gravity, a person who weighs 200 pounds on earth would only weigh 76 pounds on the surface of Mars.
The only planet that rotates on its side like a barrel is Uranus. The only planet that spins backwards relative to the others is Venus.

Some of the fastest meteoroids can travel through the solar system at a speed of around 42 kilometres per second (26 miles per second).
The first man made object sent into space was in 1957 when the Russian satellite named Sputnik was launched.

Jupiter's 4 biggest moons are named Europa, Ganymede, Callisto and Io.
It is because of the Sun & Moons gravity that we have high & low tides.
The brain uses over a quarter of the oxygen used by the human body.
Your heart beats around 100000 times a day, 36500000 times a year and over a billion times if you live beyond 30.

Red blood cells carry oxygen around the body. They are created inside the bone marrow of your bones.

The colour of a humans skin is determined by the level of pigment melanin that the body produces. Those with small amounts of melanin have light skin while those with large amounts have dark skin.

Adult lungs have a surface area of around 70 square metres!

Humans have a stage of sleep that features rapid eye movement (REM). REM sleep makes up around 25% of total sleep time and is often when you have your most vivid dreams.
Most adults have 32 teeth.
The smallest bone found in the human body is located in the middle ear. The staples (or stirrup) bone is only 2.8 millimetres long.
Your nose and ears continue growing throughout your entire life.
Infants blink only once or twice a minute while adults average around 10.
As well as having unique fingerprints, humans also have unique tongue prints.

The left side of your body is controlled by the right side of your brain while the right side of your body is controlled by the left side of your brain.

Antibiotics are only effective against bacteria, they won't help in fighting off a virus.
It takes the body around 12 hours to completely digest eaten food.
Your sense of smell is around 10000 times more sensitive than your sense of taste. 
Magma is the hot liquid rock under the surface of the Earth, it is known as lava after it comes out of a volcano.

Natural gas doesn't have an odour, strong smells are added to it by humans so it can be detected when there are leaks.

Hawaii is moving towards Japan at the speed of 10cm a year. This is because they are on different tectonic plates.

The world's largest desert (outside of the polar regions) is the Sahara, it covers about one third of Africa!

Stretching out to an impressive length of 6696 kilometres (4160 miles) long, the Nile River is the longest river on earth.

The volcanic rock known as pumice is the only rock that can float in water.

Mt Everest is the highest mountain on earth, its peak reaches 8,848 metres (29029 feet) above sea level.

On average the Atlantic Ocean is the saltiest of Earth’s major oceans.
Earthquakes that occur out at sea can cause huge tsunamis capable of reaching land and endangering people.

Metamorphic rocks are formed by extreme pressure and heat.
The Earth isn't perfectly round, it is slightly flattened at the north and south poles.

Scared of the Bermuda Triangle? Despite its reputation it is actually part of a commonly sailed shipping route.
Scientists have the dated the Earth as being between 4 and 5 billion years old!
The Amazon rainforest is the largest tropical rainforest on Earth. Enjoy more rainforest facts or learn about jungles.
Talc is the softest mineral found on Earth, reaching just 1 on Mohs scale of hardness, it is often used to make talcum powder.
The Great Barrier Reef in Australia is the largest living structure in the world.
The Niagara Falls are located on the border of the USA and Canada.
Rock found at the bottom of the Grand Canyon is around 2 billion years old.
Although earthquakes can be deadly, most are very small and not even felt by humans.
McDonald’s fast food chains employ over 1.5 million people around the world.

Different parts of the world have their own local cuisine. The diets and general food habits of various cultures depend on social, religious, economic and safety factors as well as the availability of different foods.

Examples of food and cuisine that are popular or famous in certain areas of the world include hummus in the Middle East, apple pie in the USA, raw fish in Japan, cheese in France, roast meat and vegetables in England, curry in India and tortillas in Mexico.
There are around 2000 different plant types that humans use to cultivate food.
Examples of popular vegetables include lettuce, carrots, asparagus, cauliflower, broccoli, spinach, potatoes and onions.
The sweet potato is a root vegetable and is not closely related to the potato.
Cutting onions releases a gas which causes a stinging sensation when it comes into contact with your eyes. Your body produces tears to dilute the irritant and remove it from your eyes.
Pumpkins are usually labelled as vegetables but they contain seeds and are technically fruit.
China is the largest producer of garlic, producing over 10 million tons in 2008 and accounting for over 75% of world output.
Examples of popular fruits include apples, oranges, pears, strawberries, peaches, bananas, apricots and grapes.
Technically speaking, strawberries aren't even berries!
The average apple contains around 130 calories.
India is the world’s largest producer of bananas, producing nearly 22 million tons in 2007.
Humans use many different methods for gathering food which include farming, hunting, gardening, foraging and fishing.
Humans eat meat from a number of different animals, common examples include meat from chickens, cows, sheep and pigs. Other food products that come from animals include milk, eggs and honey.
Although humans are omnivores (eating both plants and animals), many people choose not to eat meat and fish, they are known as vegetarians. Those who don’t eat or use any products made from animals (including eggs, dairy products and honey) are known as vegans.
Food for human consumption is typically made from plants and animals but we also eat other products such as fermented foods and fungus (mushrooms, truffles etc).
Cooking is an important part of food preparation that involves applying heat. In most cases this transforms the chemical make up of food, altering its texture, flavor, nutritional properties and appearance.
Types of equipment used in the cooking process include ovens, microwaves, toasters, grills, pots and frying pans.
Various cooking methods include boiling, simmering, steaming, sautéing, pan frying and deep-frying.
Around 70 million people suffer from food poisoning every year with around 7 million of these cases being fatal. Careful food storage, temperature control and preparation is necessary to avoid potentially dangerous bacteria, toxins and viruses.
Around 8% of children and 2% of adults have some kind of food allergy, this occurs when the body’s immune system incorrectly assumes a certain food protein is harmful and attacks it. Common examples of food allergies include reactions to peanuts, gluten and shellfish.
Water is made up of two elements, hydrogen and oxygen. Its chemical formula is H2O.

Each molecule of water is made up of two hydrogen atoms bonded to a single oxygen atom.

The existence of water is essential for life on Earth.
Water has three different states, liquid, solid and gas.
The word water usually refers to water in its liquid state. The solid state of water is known as ice while the gas state of water is known as steam or water vapor.
Water covers around 70% of the Earth’s surface.
The three largest oceans on Earth are the Pacific Ocean (largest), the Atlantic Ocean (second largest) and the Indian Ocean (third largest).
Found in the Pacific Ocean, the Mariana Trench is the deepest known point in the world’s oceans.
Ocean tides are caused by the rotation of the Earth and the gravitational pull of the Moon and Sun acting on ocean water.
Water from a sea or ocean is known as seawater. On average, every kilogram (2.2lb) of seawater contains around 35 grams (1.2 oz) of dissolved salt.
The freezing point of water lowers as the amount of salt dissolved in at increases. With average levels of salt, seawater freezes at -2 °C (28.4 °F).
The longest river in the world is the Nile River, it reaches 6650 kilometers in length (4132 miles).

The second longest river in the world is the Amazon River, it reaches 6400 kilometres (4000 miles) in length.
The longest river in the USA is the Missouri River. At around 2,340 miles (3,770 km) in length it is slightly longer than the Mississippi River (2,320 miles). 
The two combine to form the longest river system in North America.

Water makes a good solvent with many sugar, salts and acids easily dissolving in it. On the other hand oils and fats don’t mix well with water.
The water cycle involves water evaporating (turning into a gas), rising to the sky, cooling and condensing into tiny drops of water or ice crystals that we see as clouds, falling back to Earth as rain, snow or hail before evaporating again and continuing the cycle.
Water in the form of ice is found at the polar ice caps of the planet Mars, some scientists have also suggested the possibility of liquid water on the red planet.
Pure water has no smell and no taste, it also has a pH level around 7.
While most people know that water boils at 100 °C (212 °F), the boiling point of water actually changes relative to the barometric pressure. 
Water boils at just 68 °C (154 °F) on the top of Mount Everest while water deep in the ocean near geothermal vents can remain in liquid form at temperatures much higher than 100 °C (212 °F).

Water expands as it cools from 4 °C to 0 °C (above 4 °C it does the opposite). 
In freezing conditions, water has been known to burst water pipes as it freezes to ice.

Water can move up narrow tubes against the force of gravity in what is known as capillary action.

Most people around the world have access to clean drinking water but it is a major problem in poorer areas of the world. 
Water pollution and low quality water can lead to dangerous bacteria, disease and viruses such as E coli and Cryptosporidium.

Drinking water is needed for humans to avoid dehydration, the amount you need each day depends on the temperature, how much activity you are involved in and other factors.

An important use for water is in agricultural irrigation, this is when water is artificially added to soil in order to assist the growth of crops.

Water is used frequently by firefighters to extinguish fires. Helicopters sometimes drop large amount of water on wildfires and bushfires to stop fires spreading and limit the damage they can cause.

The water industry helps deliver water to homes in various cities and countries around the world. This can involve services such as purification, sewage treatment, filtering, distillation and plumbing.

Electricity can be created from hydropower, a process that uses water to drive water turbines connected to generators. There are many hydroelectric power stations around the world.

Water also plays a role in cooking. Steaming and boiling food are well known cooking methods. You may have noticed this last time you made pasta or noodles.

Water is also used for fun. Water sports are a very popular recreational activity and include things like swimming, surfing and waterskiing. Ice and snow is also used in ice skating, ice hockey, skiing and snowboarding.
Albert Einstein was born on the 14th of March 1879 and died on the 18th of April 1955.

Born in Germany to a Jewish family, Einstein made many contributions to the field of theoretical physics.

Even when very young, Einstein showed great ability in both math’s and science. He was naturally curious and had a brilliant analytical mind.

Einstein worked in a patent office evaluating patents for electromagnetic devices not long after he graduated.

He produced perhaps one of the most famous equations ever: E = mc² (energy equals mass multiplied by the speed of light squared).

He is also well known for his theory of relativity. Special relativity being introduced in his 1905 paper “On the Electrodynamics of Moving Bodies” before Einstein developed the theory of general relativity between the years of 1907 and 1915.

Einstein won the 1921 Nobel Prize in Physics for his work on theoretical physics.

He worked on many other influential theories and projects including: the deflection of light by gravity, the quantum theory of atomic motion in solids, Brownian motion, an explanation for capillary action and much more.
Galileo Galilei was born in Pisa, Italy, on the 15th of February 1564, he died on the 8th of January 1642.

Galileo was a ground breaking astronomer, physicist, mathematician, philosopher and inventor. Among his inventions were telescopes, a compass and a thermometer.

Galileo enrolled to do a medical degree at the University of Pisa but never finished, instead choosing to study mathematics.

Galileo built on the work of others to create a telescope with around 3x magnification, he later improved on this to make telescopes with around 30x magnification.
Galileo refused to believe Kepler’s theory that the moon caused the tides, instead believing it was due to the nature of the Earth’s rotation.
Charles Darwin was born in England on the 12th of February 1809, he died on the 19th of April 1882.
Johannes Kepler was a German astronomer and mathematician who lived from December the 27th 1571 to November the 15th 1630.
Kepler played a key role in the scientific revolution that occurred in the 17th century, contributing a number of scientific breakthroughs including his famous laws of planetary motion.
The orbit of every planet is an ellipse with the sun at a focus.
A line joining a planet and the sun sweeps out equal areas during equal intervals of time.
The square of the orbital period of a planet is directly proportional to the cube of the semi-major axis of its orbit.
Kepler was interested in astronomy from an early age, this interest was further piqued when he witnessed both a comet in 1577 as well as a lunar eclipse in 1580.
Kepler’s work on planetary motion helped Isaac Newton later devise his own theory of universal gravitation.
The highest temperature ever recorded in Antarctica is 14.6 °C (59 °F), recorded on January 5, 1974.
The most rainfall ever recorded in 24 hours is 182.5 centimetres (71.9 inches) in Foc-Foc, La Réunion, during tropical cyclone Denise on January 8, 1966.
The most rainfall ever recorded in one year is 25.4 meters (1000 inches) in Cherrapunji, India.
The highest snowfall ever recorded in a one year period was 31.1 meters (1224 inches) in Mount Rainier, Washington State, United States, between February 19, 1971 and February 18, 1972.
The fastest wind speed ever recorded is 484±32 km/h (301±20 mph). This was a 3 second gust recorded by a Doppler on Wheels (DOW) radar unit in Oklahoma City on May 3, 1999.
The heaviest hailstone ever recorded weighed 1.0 kg (2.25 lb) and landed in Gopalganj District, Bangladesh on April 14, 1986.
Clouds can be categorized into a number of different types; these include cumulus, stratus and cirrus.
The Earth experiences millions of lightning storms every year, they are incredible discharges of electricity from the atmosphere that can reach temperatures close to 54,000 °F (30,000 °C) and speeds of 60,000 m/s (130,000 mph).

Sound comes from vibrations. These vibrations create sound waves which move through mediums such as air and water before reaching our ears.

Our ears vibrate in a similar way to the original source of the vibration, allowing us to hear many different sounds.

Dogs can hear sound at a higher frequency than humans, allowing them to hear noises that we can’t.

Sound is used by many animals to detect danger, warning them of possible attacks before they happen.

Sound can’t travel through a vacuum (an area empty of matter).

The speed of sound is around 767 miles per hour (1,230 kilometres per hour).

The loud noise you create by cracking a whip occurs because the tip is moving so fast it breaks the speed of sound!

When traveling through water, sound moves around four times faster than when it travels through air.

The scientific study of sound waves is known as acoustics.

Although music can be hard to define, it is often described as a pleasing or meaningful arrangement of sounds.

The sound of thunder is produced by rapidly heated air surrounding lightning which expands faster than the speed of sound.
Modern society relies heavily on the convenience and versatility of electricity. It powers your microwave, helps light your house, lets you watch TV and so much more.

Electric current is measured in amperes (amps).

Electric potential energy is measured in volts.

Two positive charges repel each other, as do two negative charges. Opposite charges on the other hand attract each other.

When an electric charge builds up on the surface of an object it creates static electricity. 
You have probably experienced static electricity in the form of a small electric shock, which is what happens when the electric charge is quickly neutralized by an opposite charge.

Electric eels can produce strong electric shocks of around 500 volts for both self defense and hunting.

Electric circuits can contain parts such as switches, transformers, resistors and transformers.

A common way to produce electricity is by hydropower, a process that generates electricity by using water to spin turbines attached to generators.
The world’s biggest source of energy for producing electricity comes from coal.
Lightning is a discharge of electricity in the atmosphere.
Electric fields work in a similar way to gravity with an important exception being that while gravity always attracts, electric fields can either attract or repulse.
Because of differences in gravity, a 200 pound person would only weigh 76 pounds on Mars.
Electric eels can stun both predators and prey with electric shocks of around 500 volts.
Energy from food is usually measured in joules or calories.
Light from the Earth takes just 1.255 seconds to reach the Moon.
Sound travels at a speed of around 767 miles per hour (1,230 kilometres per hour). 
When traveling at 80 kilometres per hour (50 miles per hour), cars use around half of their fuel just to overcome wind resistance.
Water can work against gravity, moving up narrow tubes in a process called capillary action.
A magnifying glass uses the properties of a convex shaped lens to magnify an image, making it easier to see.
A scientist who studies physics is known as a physicist.
Uranus is the only planet in our solar system that rolls on its side like a barrel, while Venus is the only planet that spins in the opposite direction to Earth.
The fastest land animal in the world is the Cheetah, clocking a max speed of around 113 km per hour (70 mph).
1921 Nobel Prize in Physics was won by Albert Einstein for his work in the field of theoretical physics.
Objects with mass are attracted to each other, this is known as gravity.

Gravity keeps Earth and the other planets in our solar system in orbit around the Sun. It also keeps the Moon in orbit around Earth.

Tides are caused by the rotation of the Earth and the gravitational effects of the Moon and Sun.

Because Mars has a lower gravity than Earth, a person weighing 200 pounds on Earth would only weigh 76 pounds on Mars.

It is thought that Isaac Newton’s theories on gravity were inspired by seeing an apple fall from a tree.

While Newton’s older law of universal gravitation is accurate in most scenarios, modern physics uses Albert Einstein’s general theory of relativity to describe gravity.

Acceleration of objects to due to the gravity on Earth is around 9.8 m/s2. If you ignore air resistance (drag) then the speed of an object falling to Earth increases by around 9.8 metres per second every second.

The force of gravity 100 kilometres (62 miles) above Earth is just 3% less than at the Earth’s surface.
Some roller coasters have been known to include g-forces of around 4 to 6 g.
In physics, light refers to electromagnetic radiation.
Other animals can see parts of the spectrum that humans can’t. For example, a large number of insects can see ultraviolet (UV) light.
UV light can be used to show things the human eye can’t see, coming in handy for forensic scientists.
The wavelength of infrared light is too long to be visible to the human eye.
Scientists study the properties and behaviors of light in a branch of physics known as optics.
Light travels very, very fast. The speed of light in a vacuum (an area empty of matter) is around 186,000 miles per second (300,000 kilometres per second).
Light takes 1.255 seconds to get from the Earth to the Moon.
Sunlight can reach a depth of around 80 metres (262 feet) in the ocean.
Photosynthesis is a process that involves plants using energy from sunlight to convert carbon dioxide into food.
It might only take you a few minutes to finish a meal but it takes your body around 12 hours before it has completely digested the food.
The human body needs iron to help perform a number of important functions. 
Iron helps carry oxygen to parts of your body in the form of hemoglobin. 
Not having enough can lead to iron deficiency and symptoms such as weakness and fatigue.
Examples of iron rich foods include red meat, fish, chick peas, tofu, beans and lentils.
Red blood cells are created inside the marrow of your bones, they serve the important role of carrying blood around your body.
Around 7 million people die every year from food poisoning out of a total of around 70 million cases. 
Careful food preparation and storage is vital in order to avoid dangerous toxins, viruses and bacteria.
Obesity can increase the chances of developing diseases such as type 2 diabetes and heart disease.
In 2007, heart disease was the leading cause of death in the USA.

In 2007 around 13% of all deaths worldwide were caused by cancer. The branch of medicine related to cancer study and treatment is known as oncology.

Infectious diseases such as AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis lead to around 26% of worldwide deaths in 2002.
People that study biology are known as biologists.

Australia’s Great Barrier Reef is the largest living structure on Earth. Reaching over 2000 kilometres (1240 miles) in length.

The first person to see a live cell with a microscope was Antonie van Leeuwenhoek, in 1674.

Ecology is the study of ecosystems and how organisms interact with their environment.

While some bacteria can make you sick, others have positive benefits such as helping you digest food or even make yoghurt.

Moulds, yeasts and mushrooms are types of fungus.

The common cold is a type of virus.

Viruses can be treated with antiviral drugs.

Bacteria are extremely small and are made up of just one cell.

Bacterial infections can be treated with antibiotics.

Animals that eat plants as their primary food source are known as herbivores.

Endangered species are those that are in danger of being completely wiped out, they include blue whales, tigers and pandas.
Born on July 5th 1996, Dolly the sheep was the first mammal to be cloned from an adult cell.

When the DNA of an organism changes and results in a new trait (characteristic) it is known as mutation.

French chemist and microbiologist Louis Pasteur was well known for inventing a process to stop various foods and liquids making people sick. 
Charles Darwin developed the idea of natural selection, sometimes called survival of the fittest.
Fire is a chemical reaction that releases light and heat.

Substances combine with oxygen in the air, combusting with a flame and often smoke.

Fires require fuel, oxygen and heat to burn.

Different types of fuel include coal, oil and wood.

Flames are the part of a fire which we can see, they can be different colors, depending on the substance which is burning.

A candle flame typically burns at around 1000 degrees Celsius (1800 Fahrenheit).

Fire is very dangerous to humans as it can easily burn or blister skin. It is important to take safety precautions when using fire.

Fire is also very useful to humans for lighting, heating, cooking and more.

Scientists believe that humans began using fire to cook food in a controlled way around 1 million years ago.

Forest fires can be extremely destructive and are dangerous to both humans and wildlife.

Fires are also an important ecological process that can stimulate growth.
Fire extinguishers are often used to control fires by discharging water, foams, carbon dioxide, dry chemicals or other substances.
The word ‘nuclear’ is related to the nucleus of an atom, it is often used to describe the energy produced when a nucleus is split (fission) or joined with another (fusion).

The nucleus is positively charged and found at the central core of an atom.

Nuclear physics is the study of atomic nuclei and their interactions.

Nuclear power uses fission to create heat and electricity.

The US, France and Japan are the largest producers of nuclear power.

Nuclear power provides around 14% of the world’s electricity.
The radioactive waste produced by nuclear reactors can be difficult to dispose of safely.

The military often use nuclear reactors to power their submarines and aircraft carriers.
Nuclear weapons use the energy produced by fission or fusion to create destructive blasts.

While many nuclear weapons have been used in testing, only 2 have been used as part of warfare.

In August 1945, near the end of World War 2, the United States used atomic bombs on the Japanese cities of Hiroshima and Nagasaki, leading to the death of approximately 200000 people.
Enriched uranium is a crucial element of both nuclear weapons and nuclear power production.
The Sun creates energy through the nuclear fusion of hydrogen nuclei into helium.
It is believed that radiation exposure led to the death of Marie Curie in 1934.
Astronomers study objects found in space such as planets, moons, stars, solar systems and galaxies.
Astronomy is one of the oldest fields of science.
Becoming an astronomer usually requires a high level of education such as a PhD in physics.
Strong math skills are important for astronomers.
Astronomers usually work for Universities or research institutes.
Professional astronomers only spend a small amount of time with telescopes, most of their time is spent analyzing images and data. 
Some work entirely with data observed by other people.
Astrophysics is a branch of astronomy that focuses on the physics of the Universe.
Rabbits and parrots can see behind themselves without even moving their heads!
Butterflies taste food by standing on top of it! Their taste receptors are in their feet unlike humans who have most on their tongue.
Most of the dust in your home is actually dead skin! Yuck!
Although the Stegosaurus dinosaur was over 9 metres long, its brain was only the size of a walnut.
Humans get a little taller in space because there is no gravity pulling down on them.
Because of the unusual shape of their legs, kangaroos and emus struggle to walk backwards.
A hippopotamus may seem huge but it can still run faster than a man.
Even if an analog clock is broken, at least it shows the correct time twice a day.
Sneezing with your eyes open is impossible.
The trickiest tongue twister in the English language is apparently "Sixth sick sheik’s sixth sheep’s sick". Give it a try and see for yourself.
Airplanes are fixed-wing aircraft that are propelled through the air by engines.
They are used for transportation, recreation, research and military purposes.
Engines provide the thrust needed to move a plane forward, overcoming drag and allowing the wings to create lift.
Aircraft wings feature a shape called an airfoil which is designed to create lift as the plane moves through the air.
The long, thin body of an aircraft is typically called the fuselage.
Pilots usually control the plane from a cockpit located at the front of the fuselage.
Some aircraft (usually military or experimental) are capable of supersonic flight (breaking the sound barrier) by traveling at speeds faster than sound (1235kph, 768mph).
There have only been two commercial aircraft capable of supersonic transport, the most well known of these was the Concorde which flew between major cities such as London, New York and Paris until 2003.
It took Concorde just three and a half hours to travel from New York to Paris while it took other commercial aircraft around eight hours.
Unmanned aircraft controlled remotely or by computers are known as drones.
American aviation pioneers Orville and Wilbur Wright (The Wright Brothers), are believed to be have created the first successful airplane.
Donald Trump invented the most complicated haircut using a orange peel and a feral cat.
Triangles were invented by a woman in 3508BC
The first smartphones (1856-1912) used high frequency sound waves instead of electromagnetic waves. They didn't work in space and that's why scientists from NASA had to create the smartphones we know today.
You think about a banana 6 times per hour on average.
Rubbing your phone battery over your hair will charge it by using static electricity.
You use only 10% of your brain
Drinking alcohol kills brain cells
You can only see the Great Wall of China from space
An asteroid once destroyed a massive forest in Siberia without ever hitting the ground.
The days were shorter millions of years in the past.
The Mediterranean Sea once dried up almost completely.
The atmosphere around the sun is much hotter than the actual surface of the sun.
It once rained fish in a small town in the Australian outback.
Earth shares its orbit with its very own asteroid buddy.
There is a lake in Venezuela that experiences almost constant lightning.
There are planets floating around space without a sun or a solar system to call home.
Many oranges have to be "degreened" to get their distinctive orange color.
There is a dwarf planet in our solar system that spins so rapidly that its shape is all messed-up.
Male koalas have two penises. 
Female koalas have three vaginas.
Russia is bigger than Pluto.
Firenados are a thing that happens.
The tallest known cliff in the Solar System is on Uranus' tiny moon Miranda.
There was a time when dragonflies the size of seagulls terrorized the Earth.
All the planets of the Solar System could theoretically fit in the space between Earth and the Moon.
An exoskeleton is being developed that can be operated with mind control.
Natural Viagra exists, but we wouldn't recommend trying it.
The world record for the longest time spent masturbating to orgasm is 6 hours 30 minutes.
Every year, up to 1000 people die while trying to strangle themselves during masturbation.
Animals like deer, monkeys, walruses and squirrels have been documented masturbating
Graham Crackers were originally invented to treat and prevent masturbation.
Doctors during the Victorian era believed that masturbation was a disease.
The term “whale” is a word used to describe several different types of marine mammals, which include whales, dolphins and porpoises.
Depending on the whales species their physical appearance and features can change dramatically.